server/README.md, before:

# Deckard Orchestrator Service

FastAPI backend for realtime conversation orchestration:
- OpenAI Realtime + Agents SDK for voice/text/tool flows
- RunPod-hosted lip-sync inference (MuseTalk-style handlers)
- WebSocket bridge to the Next.js client (`web/src/app/page.tsx`)

## Local setup
1. Create and activate a Python environment (Python 3.12+ recommended).
2. Install dependencies:
   ```bash
   uv sync
   ```
3. Copy `server/.env.example` to `server/.env.local` and set:
   - `OPENAI_API_KEY`
   - `RUNPOD_API_KEY`
   - `RUNPOD_ENDPOINT_ID` (or `RUNPOD_RUN_URL` + `RUNPOD_STATUS_URL_TEMPLATE`)
   - Optional direct mode:
     - `LIPSYNC_DIRECT_URL` (example: `http://127.0.0.1:8001/generate`)
4. Start the API:
   ```bash
   uv run uvicorn app.main:app --reload --host 0.0.0.0 --port 8000
   ```

## Co-Located Lip-Sync Server (Same GPU Pod)
If you are running Deckard on a RunPod GPU pod and want the lip-sync model on the same machine:

1. Start Deckard backend (WebSocket + orchestration) on `:8000`:
   ```bash
   uv run uvicorn app.main:app --host 0.0.0.0 --port 8000
   ```
2. Start the lip-sync server on `:8001`:
   ```bash
   # Backend selection:
   # - noop (default): returns a clear error until you configure a model
   # - wav2lip: shells out to a local Wav2Lip checkout
   export LIPSYNC_SERVER_BACKEND=wav2lip
   export WAV2LIP_REPO_DIR=/workspace/Wav2Lip
   export WAV2LIP_CHECKPOINT_PATH=/workspace/wav2lip_gan.pth
   uv run uvicorn app.lipsync_server.main:app --host 0.0.0.0 --port 8001
   ```
3. Point Deckard to the local server (lowest latency):
   - `LIPSYNC_DIRECT_URL=http://127.0.0.1:8001/generate`

## RunPod integration
- The backend submits async jobs to RunPod Serverless v2 `/run`, then polls `/status/{job_id}`.
- Expected handler output must include a video URL in one of:
  - `output.video_url`
  - `output.result_url`
  - `output.url`
- If no URL is returned, the backend emits `talk_error` to the client.

## Directory guide
- `app/main.py` - realtime websocket manager and event serialization
- `app/config.py` - environment-driven settings
- `app/services/lipsync.py` - provider-agnostic lip-sync orchestration
- `app/services/runpod.py` - RunPod HTTP client + status normalization
- `app/services/audio_utils.py` - PCM/WAV conversion utilities
- `app/ai_agents/` - OpenAI Agents SDK agent definitions
- `tests/` - pytest coverage for service and agent behavior

Commit message:

Enhance developer onboarding and documentation: Added a new developer quickstart checklist to AGENTS.md, updated CHANGELOG with onboarding documentation, and revised README for improved clarity on system architecture and setup instructions. Introduced memory key handling in websocket connections for personalized user experiences.

server/README.md, after:

# Deckard Orchestrator Service

FastAPI backend for realtime conversation orchestration:
- OpenAI Realtime + Agents SDK for voice/text/tool flows
- RunPod-hosted lip-sync inference (MuseTalk-style handlers)
- WebSocket bridge to the Next.js client (`web/src/app/page.tsx`)
- Low-latency memory and personalization hooks via `memory_key`

## Local setup
1. Create and activate a Python environment (Python 3.12+ recommended).
2. Install dependencies:
   ```bash
   uv sync
   ```
3. Copy `server/.env.example` to `server/.env.local` and set:
   - `OPENAI_API_KEY`
   - `RUNPOD_API_KEY`
   - `RUNPOD_ENDPOINT_ID` (or `RUNPOD_RUN_URL` + `RUNPOD_STATUS_URL_TEMPLATE`)
   - Optional direct mode:
     - `LIPSYNC_DIRECT_URL` (example: `http://127.0.0.1:8001/generate`)
4. Start the API:
   ```bash
   uv run uvicorn app.main:app --reload --host 0.0.0.0 --port 8000
   ```

## Websocket memory key
- Endpoint: `/ws/{session_id}?memory_key={stable_user_key}`
- If `memory_key` is provided, server memory recall/persistence uses it as the identity key.
- If omitted, `session_id` is used as fallback.
- Memory writes are asynchronous and should not block the realtime loop.

## Co-Located Lip-Sync Server (Same GPU Pod)
If you are running Deckard on a RunPod GPU pod and want the lip-sync model on the same machine:

1. Start Deckard backend (WebSocket + orchestration) on `:8000`:
   ```bash
   uv run uvicorn app.main:app --host 0.0.0.0 --port 8000
   ```
2. Start the lip-sync server on `:8001`:
   ```bash
   # Backend selection:
   # - noop (default): returns a clear error until you configure a model
   # - wav2lip: shells out to a local Wav2Lip checkout
   export LIPSYNC_SERVER_BACKEND=wav2lip
   export WAV2LIP_REPO_DIR=/workspace/Wav2Lip
   export WAV2LIP_CHECKPOINT_PATH=/workspace/wav2lip_gan.pth
   uv run uvicorn app.lipsync_server.main:app --host 0.0.0.0 --port 8001
   ```
3. Point Deckard to the local server (lowest latency):
   - `LIPSYNC_DIRECT_URL=http://127.0.0.1:8001/generate`

## RunPod integration
- The backend submits async jobs to RunPod Serverless v2 `/run`, then polls `/status/{job_id}`.
- Expected handler output must include a video URL in one of:
  - `output.video_url`
  - `output.result_url`
  - `output.url`
- If no URL is returned, the backend emits `talk_error` to the client.

## Directory guide
- `app/main.py` - realtime websocket manager and event serialization
- `app/config.py` - environment-driven settings
- `app/services/lipsync.py` - provider-agnostic lip-sync orchestration
- `app/services/runpod.py` - RunPod HTTP client + status normalization
- `app/services/memory.py` - local-first conversational memory + optional Supabase sync
- `app/services/audio_utils.py` - PCM/WAV conversion utilities
- `app/ai_agents/` - OpenAI Agents SDK agent definitions
- `app/lipsync_server/` - optional local inference API for same-pod deployments
- `tests/` - pytest coverage for service and agent behavior
